In this video, we're going to see how to solve a system of linear equations, including writing the solution set in set builder notation.
So here we have three equations in three variables. And the very first thing we want to do is write down the corresponding augmented matrix.
So our first row looks like two, minus one, one, and that seven to the right of the bar. Then three,
Negative two, zero, eleven.
And then I only have five, zero, 10. And the fifteen.
Now we want to pop over to my favorite RREF calculator--in this case, Wolfram Alpha.
And find the reduced row echelon form here. And now that I have it reduced row echelon form, I'll go ahead and circle pivots.
And then I'm going to rewrite this as a nice, simple system of equations. So that first row looks like x1 plus two x3, equal to three.
Second row looks like x2 plus three x3.
equals negative one. Now, there, row three says zero equals zero.
Now, I want to highlight here. Well, we have exactly one column that was not a pivot.
So each of our non pivot columns is going to correspond to a free variable so we can let X three be our favorite letter.
I usually start with a and that's gonna be our free variable.
One non pivot column here means one free variable. And now we can rewrite our system of equations using this free variable.
So an A instead of X three. x2 plus 3a can still be a negative one.
And now the beauty of the reduced row echelon form is that it's very easy to solve for our pivot variables X1 and X2 here.
So we have X one equal to three minus two a;  x2 is negative one minus three a.
Simply write down a vector, so X1 was three minus two a, x two is negative one, minus three a.